---
title: Gens Announcement - Releasing March 22nd @ 3:00 PM EST
slug: gens-announcement-2025-3-15
image_url: /assets/img/post/2025/gens-release-march.png
date_published: 2024-3-23T15:18:54.465Z
date_updated: 2024-3-23T15:18:54.465Z
tags: Server News Changelog Announcement
---



# OPLegends | GENS MAP | LAUNCHING NEXT SATURDAY AT 3PM EST!



:sparkler: We’re thrilled to announce the release of our Gens Map, launching Saturday, March 22nd, 2025, at 3PM EST! The entire team has put in countless hours to make this map a great experience, and we’re excited to share it with you!



### :earth_africa: Core Progression Areas



There are 3 primary areas to grind and progress in:



> :small_blue_diamond: :chicken: Farming – The core of the economy, everything revolves around it.<br>
> :small_blue_diamond: :pick:️ Mining – Used to obtain Totems, which provide powerful boosts.<br>
> :small_blue_diamond: :palm_tree: Woodcutting – The source of Acorns, essential for ascending pets past certain tiers.



### :book: Brand-New Custom Enchants



> We’ve added 50+ brand-new, custom enchants across Farming, Woodcutting, and Mining!
> Enchant Prestiging – Pushing enchants beyond their normal limits.
> Tool Upgrades – Upgrade your tools to boost efficiency and power.



### 🧇 The Forge System



> Introducing the Forge, where you can craft powerful Totems and Armor. This system allows for a new level of customization and progression-based grinding.



### :shield:️ Armor



> Armor will now follow a linear upgrade path, starting from leather and advancing through materials like copper, iron, and more, with Forged Armor being soulbound.



### 🪨 Runes



> Introducing Armor Runes, replacing Armor Scrolls and giving you full control over your gear’s multipliers. Forge basic runes for steady boosts, or mine for unique, non-forgeable multipliers based on the material you collect. Applying runes is drag-and-drop or right-click, with overwrite protection to safeguard your best upgrades.



### 🟥 AFK Block



> The AFK Block lets you keep progressing even while AFK! Gain EXP, keys, gems, crops, milestones, and skill progression at 12x slower speed while inheriting your procs, enchants, and multipliers.



### :infinity: Unlimited Chunk Collectors



> One of the biggest issues from our last Gens map was the collection system we’ve fixed that. Chunk Collectors now have unlimited slots! We also added quick upgrade to make it easier to upgrade your gens.



### :island:️ Island Top



> We’re excited to bring Trophies back for Island Top! Trophies can be purchased with money, which you’ll earn primarily through Farming & Generators.



### :dna: Generators



> On release, 58 Generators will be available to jumpstart your island production and help you climb Island Top. More may be added throughout the season.



### 🛝 Playtime Rewards



> In addition to Mailman Matt, we’re introducing new rewards for active players! Earn Playtime Points simply by being online (AFK counts), with each daily reward bringing you closer to unlocking Playtime Milestones.



### :eyes: Sneak Peaks



> Be sure to keep an eye on the [sneak-peaks](https://discord.com/channels/528284383459934208/1303064840419541102) channel, as we’ll be posting exciting previews throughout the week leading up to the launch of Gens!



### :dart: Other Updates



> - Custom Builds
> - Radiant Crate
> - New Island theme (/is island)
> - Quick Upgrade (imported from prison)
> - Backpack Upgrades



:date: Gens Map will be releasing, March 22nd @ 3PM EST.



### :gift: RELEASE GIVEAWAY:



:fireworks: Enter [here](https://discord.com/channels/528284383459934208/927365734282194975) for a chance to win!



play.oplegends.com